(Charlotte grunts)
(humming)
(both grunt)
(scoffs)
Good throw.
You could be a major league player.
Major league?
They used to play baseball
in a big stadium in front of a huge crowd.
Then I want to be a pitcher
on a baseball team.
For that to happen,
we'll need to make this world peaceful.
Peaceful?
That means no more war, Charlotte.
Maybe it's difficult for you to grasp.
COLONEL: The Peacebuilding Force
that I work for
is trying to make this world peaceful.
I know. You're the best, Dad.
Just wait and see.
We'll beat those
damn scrap iron machines soon.
No cursing in front of children.
(all chuckle)
(squeaks)
("ASEED" by ZAQ playing)
(engine revving)
-(clanks)
-(Black Trike groans)
Uh?
(beeping)
BLACK TRIKE: I'm sorry.
I'm not able to repair the drive system.
Black Trike.
DEAD MASTER:
I thought Hemiteos Unit Assist Vehicles
were equipped with a self-repair function.
BLACK TRIKE:
We self-repair with materials collected
from natural objects in the area.
But there are many unrepairable parts.
Some required materials are unavailable.
What are we going to do?
We can't continue our journey
without Black Trike.
Of course, there's no other choice
but to fix it.
STRENGTH: Scavenging through scrap iron...
(Strength grunts)
This task is not worthy
of the name Hemiteos Unit.
Dead Master, if we get attacked
under these conditions, we're toast.
COLONEL: I need you to be on the lookout.
DEAD MASTER: Leave it to me.
If I see Unmanned Forces,
I'll shoot them down right away.
COLONEL: You must report to me
before you start firing. Don't forget.
If you say so.
-(keyboard clacking)
-(Monica humming)
(grunts)
(clicking)
-Okay.
-(beeps)
MONICA: It looks like
the self-repair function needed
more electrical power, too.
I hope this works.
-(clicks)
-BLACK TRIKE: Whoa.
Satisfactory.
Monica Kaburagi,
you are brilliant for a private citizen.
Do you need to say
"for a private citizen"?
(clatters)
Uh...
MONICA: Did you find anything
that looks useful?
Uh?
Let me see it.
(thumps)
(clatters)
(gasps)
What are you doing?
You could have killed me!
Sorry.
EMPRESS: Where's Strength?
DEAD MASTER: It's her turn
to be on the lookout.
-(clinking)
-(Strength yawning)
DEAD MASTER: Here you go. Open your mouth.
We can relax a bit now that we've crushed
the Educational Institution.
Although we couldn't get
that girl called Charlotte.
We'll surely be attacked again.
You'll be able to talk with her.
I assure you.
Hmm...
My daughter liked sports
and toasted marshmallows.
(soft music)
I'm sorry.
COLONEL: What are you apologizing for?
EMPRESS: I threw that ball
and ripped it up.
COLONEL: I see.
You throw a blazing fastball.
You should be an ace pitcher
for the New York Yankees.
Yankees?
It's a story from long ago.
My daughter used to like baseball, too.
Your daughter. Charlotte.
COLONEL: I was surprised
she was even alive.
Let alone showing up like that.
Don't be afraid to feel happy
that she's alive.
(gasps)
Strength said there's still a chance
we can get her back.
As long as there's a chance...
Humans are like that, right?
You're right.
COLONEL: Humans are like that.
DEAD MASTER: Colonel, can you hear me?
There's something coming towards us.
Mm?
(tense music)
COLONEL: Giganteses.
Even worse, with highly toxic Arche.
We're fine. Hemiteos Units
are immune to Arche.
We couldn't battle
the Unmanned Forces if we weren't.
COLONEL: But Monica and I will die.
What's toxic Arche?
Out-of-control nanobots
that have become toxic to the human body.
We can't fight Giganteses here, anyway.
It would be an inefficient,
pointless battle.
It would be even more difficult
if they call for backup.
Okay, then it's decided.
Let's just keep going. Uh...
We haven't repaired Black Trike yet.
That will be the priority.
Hurry up and fix it,
then we'll rush to the destination.
About that...
What's the matter?
We still lack the hard-to-find parts.
Such as?
Rare metals,
especially the 17 rare-earth elements.
MONICA: Yttrium for lasers, neodymium
and dysprosium for micro motors.
There are some others, too.
How can we get those?
From the wreckage of Unmanned Forces,
but that still might not be enough.
Personal computers
and LCDs would help, even old ones.
Oh, here they are.
What? Don't leave out the subject.
MONICA:
It's a Peacebuilding Force facility.
A base?
No, a library.
Peacebuilding Force Memorial Library.
How can there be machine parts
at a library?
Well, it's a facility
of the Peacebuilding Force.
It seems to be abandoned now,
but it's highly likely that there are tons
of computers and tablets left there.
It's far from refugee camps or towns,
so not likely to have been scavenged.
STRENGTH: Black Trike can't move.
Somebody has to stay here.
Dead Master.
Would you stay here and be the lookout
while protecting Black Trike?
Roger.
(action music)
Hmm, this must be it.
COLONEL: Monica. If you're putting me on,
I'm gonna bury you here.
No way, I'm not making things up.
MONICA: Strength.
STRENGTH: Okay, if got to.
MONICA: See, as I thought.
There's something here.
(yelps)
What the...
ANDY: How do you do, everybody?
Welcome to the Peacebuilding Force
Memorial Library.
I am Andy, the librarian android.
The reading room is this way.
This robot hasn't been hacked
by the Unmanned Forces?
He's a limited-function AI,
operating off-line. We're safe.
Although it's junk, a very old model.
Let's dismantle it for parts.
(Andy shrieks)
ANDY: I am not junk.
(suspenseful music)
COLONEL: We can use these.
Do you have a server room?
ANDY: It is over there at the back.
Since we are in standby power mode,
we are down to only 1% functional
of normal times.
Would you still like me to take you there?
Yes, of course.
You check out the server room.
We'll collect parts here.
Got it. Please take me there.
ANDY: Certainly. Follow me.
Okay.
MONICA: As expected, the database server
doesn't seem to be working.
I guess it'll be worth it
if I can collect some parts.
ANDY: Databases continue
to be securely updated inside me.
If you need information, please inquire.
Hmm...
So do you have
any information on the Colonel?
The military man who came here with me.
ANDY: Why do you need that?
I want to get some dirt on him.
ANDY: That statement
is morally troublesome.
It's okay.
I'm good friends with the Colonel.
ANDY: In that case, it is okay.
-Searching...
-That was too easy.
ANDY: Search completed.
I've found info on an individual
who fits that description.
But because he is on a secret mission,
his general military record was deleted.
I thought so. How about his family?
ANDY: The Colonel had a wife
and a daughter.
They are both deceased.
The daughter is alive, though.
What was his wife like?
ANDY:
The Colonel's wife Jessica graduated from
Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
Her major was metal-organic science
and nanotechnology.
Her records after graduation are deleted.
Isn't she a civilian? Why was it deleted?
ANDY: I do not...
-How's it going?
-Whoa! You scared me.
-(Monica yelping)
-COLONEL: Monica!
(exhales deeply)
(Monica groaning)
It hurts.
(gasps)
It's...
It's an enemy!
An infantry soldier unit
of the Titans drones.
(whimpering)
-(Colonel grunts)
-(gasps)
Are you okay, Monica?
MONICA: Look!
COLONEL: It's a feral unit
with no signal reception.
(gunshots)
(electricity crackling)
(grunting)
(clangs)
(gasps)
Since it's a feral unit,
reinforcements are not likely on the way.
Yeah.
What's wrong?
ANDY: Thomas. He wasn't a bad guy.
What?
You named an infantry soldier unit
from the Unmanned Forces?
MONICA: Maybe because they
are both machines they got along?
He would have attacked you
if he came online. We saved your life.
Now, how should we get back up?
ANDY: You can get back up from here.
(trilling)
(calm music)
MONICA: Huh?
ANDY: That's my family.
Oh, okay.
ANDY: They were abandoned,
so I gathered them together,
and little by little, I repaired them.
I want to form a baseball team
with my family.
I see.
(clangs)
(clanging continues)
-EMPRESS: Oh.
-(clicks, buzzes)
(metal clanging)
"Hemiteos Unit."
NEXT PAGE
Ethical tests.
ANDY: Should I explain it to you
in plain language?
EMPRESS: Yes.
ANDY: In order for sophisticated AI
to achieve autonomous behavior,
they were required to have
an appropriately high level of ethics.
Many tests were developed for them.
What tests?
ANDY: A famous one is the trolley problem.
There's a runaway trolley.
Five workers are in its path.
You're at the lever that switches tracks.
If you pull the lever, they will be saved.
But if you do, there is a worker
on the tracks ahead.
Given you cannot contact them,
would you choose
to save five workers or one?
(clangs)
ANDY: Artemis solved this trolley problem
by saying it would kill one and save five,
then take responsibility by suicide.
This made the humans happy.
They thought, "This is our desired
artificial intelligence. It is perfect."
So, what is the definition of life
for an artificial object, anyway?
(Andy chuckles sheepishly)
ANDY: That's the problem.
Science without philosophy
is dangerous and unstable.
I finished.
-COLONEL: All right, let's pull out.
-Wait a minute.
There's one last thing I want to ask.
ANDY: Yes?
What is Light House Number Eight?
ANDY: Searching... Search completed.
It is a facility
of the Peacebuilding Force.
Its activities are marked as classified.
It has already been shuttered.
There should be nothing left of it now.
No.
Mm.
(grunting)
Andy!
(soft music)
-(grunts)
-(thumps)
ANDY: Is this a real ball?
I hope you can play baseball someday.
ANDY: What?
You shouldn't be using a steel pipe.
I'll bring you a real bat if I find one.
ANDY: Will you come again?
Once we get our business done, yeah.
(light music)
(blasts)
I've eliminated possible
enemy reconnaissance drones.
I stalled them but it might have been
detected by the main unit.
COLONEL: Got it. Return immediately.
How are the repairs going?
MONICA: What do you think, Black Trike?
BLACK TRIKE:
Self-repair function availability, 99.8%.
Power supply including backup, 100%.
Drive system damage, repair complete.
I'm now in a condition to move any time.
Yes!
COLONEL: We can go any time now.
Black Trike's repairs are finished.
(ethereal music)
LIGHT HOUSE NO. 8
STRENGTH: Hey.
Hey, Empress. What's the matter?
(gasps)
Nothing.
What is it?
Why are you staring at me
so lovingly all of the sudden?
I just thought, the three of us
can do anything as long as we're together.
What the hell is that, out of the blue?
Have you heard of the trolley problem?
You think I'm stupid?
Of course, I know about it.
What would you two do?
I'd kill the guy
who thought up such a test.
It depends on if the ones I could save
include my loved ones.
If not, then I don't care.
I'll just roll dice or something.
(gasps)
(chuckles)
STRENGTH: Why are you laughing?
Did I say something funny?
DEAD MASTER:
Oh, you have a nice smile, too.
That was a strange robot,
wanting to form a baseball team.
It was.
(trilling)
ANDY: I hope we can meet again.
(explosion)
ANDY: Are you a visitor?
I'm the avenger.
And I destroy everything Empress
gets involved with.
("Before the Nightmare"
by Kanako Takatsuki playing)